And that is with Fred McClure. I re-recorded. So
y'all cooled your heels? Yeah. And, you know, he
was the Uncle Charlie of that place. Wow. I never
saw anything like it. Well, we eventually worked
out some things. And as a matter of fact, there was a
very interesting result. One of the professors
who went down there, I think it was Binger, I think
it was he, taught down there and he came back with a
report that was stunning about how
the rooms weren't air conditioned, although
there were air conditioners there, but they
didn't work. And what turned out to be the fact was
that they had used maintenance money for other
purposes. In any event, it led to a big, and you know
as much about that as I do, what happened, a big
turnover. or did you did you ever have to cope with
the realities of the services and the stations
reporting to the system where the dean of
agriculture reported to the campus something
slid it into my mind and it I was asking you about the
stations and oh yeah that was a serious problem
I mentioned a director who dictated tried to
dictate salaries even in the veterinary medicine
school if he had a small piece we had a problem over
Kunkel took credit for this but I don't know if it
was he who actually instigated it but the problem
of designating professorial titles to people out
in the experiment stations And we never did
resolve that, but it was something that happened
some time ago, probably in the early days of
Kunkel's deanship.
I think we eliminated it, but there was probably a
question of whether they would have
representation in the Senate. Now, it'd be okay if
they were joint appointments, but there are some
who weren't even joint appointments. As a matter
of fact, I had gone through at the University of
Tennessee a situation where in the last year or so
that I was there, I was a senator. And the Extension
Service dominated the Senate because they had all
of these people all over the state of Tennessee. So
there was that kind of thing. If you had
dictatorial authority, you're the emperor and
don't have to explain it to the voters, how would
you organize administratively the ag and
engineering experiment stations and extension
services? Where would they report? To the dean.
And then the dean would report to the? Vice
president for academic affairs. Chancellor. All
right. Then, now I'm being the devil's advocate.
How would then anyone anywhere else within the
Texas A&M system, how would they possibly get any
research money from one of the experiment
stations? Well, I really have not thought that all
through, but that would be a problem.
You know, I suppose it could be worked out, but I saw
some, we had some pretty nasty problems as a result
of not having jurisdiction over the extension
services or the... I think I'm discovering that
one of the consistent problems for 40, 50 years has
been that organizational structure. Yeah. And
that only under Rudder and Williams, when they
were head CEO of both the system and the campus, did
we not have it. That's right. And now it seems to me
at least that the system is very, very, very
personnel heavy. Oh boy, that's, you're
absolutely right. An enormous amount of money has
gone into the system. And it did happen in the 80s.
That's when it really took off. All right, back to
other proud moments, victories that you recall
back in your day. Did we leave any out? Probably,
but I'll think about them later. All right, now I'm
going to ask the negative. Which deans would you
put on your merit page to give special praise to?
Certainly, Gordon when he was in Geosciences.
That's Gordon Eaton. Yeah, Gordon Eaton and Mel
Friedman. Mel Friedman in Geosciences. Yeah, I
thought they both did a fine job.
Mews when he was dean. Ann Mobley, I thought, did a
good job. And now, what's the president dean's
name? He's good. He really is good. He was the vice
president at Houston. Oh, yes. The accountant.
Yes. I can't think of his name, but I remember
trying to help recruit him back in the late 70s as a
faculty member. Yeah, he's a class act. Yes, yes.
That College of Business almost runs by itself.
One of the things I observed about it is they don't
really participate in the rest of the university.
They're out doing their own thing. If you round up
the usual suspects for a committee, with the
exception of a waynetter, one or two like that, you
run out of names real quickly. In agriculture, you
get lots of them. In liberal arts, you get a bunch of
them. Liberal arts, Dean? I don't remember one
that's outstanding. Architecture, I think there
have, architecture is just a disaster area for a
long time. Engineering? Well, again, you know,
poor old Bob
followed Benson. He didn't have a chance because
it was Skip Porter there. Samson? I mean, Science?
Veterinary Medicine? Oh, I think John Shattuck
was very good. Shelton was a good old boy, but he'd
come over and apologize for asking for salary
increases. He wasn't a fighter for his college,
but he was a very nice man. I liked him a lot. But
Shattuck was a good one, and he was fourth on the
list, which made for some problems with
acceptance by the faculty.
I can't, I didn't know Woody as a dean. Fallon
played games. Okay. And he's paid a price for it,
for that kind of thing. Let's see, who am I, I
thought Corrigan did a good job with education.
He, the day that I got back from my on campus
interview at El Paso, We landed, and an hour later,
I was to meet him at the same airport here to begin
his visit as the prospective dean. Really? And in
the ones that I led, I always insisted we try to
follow, as much as possible, exactly the same
schedule for everybody. So it would be equal
experiences. And we would go into the little mini
theater in the Rudder Tower. Rutter Center, and it
would be an introductory session with the
prospective dean, and I would introduce him or
her. They would make a presentation about
themselves, their background, and what they
thought were the major issues before, in this
case, education, and then make conversation. I'd
try to say, you're not supposed to quiz them this
time. And when I sat down, I was so tired, I said to
myself, Mr. Dean Corrigan, you'd better be pretty
good or I may go to sleep. Well, an hour later, I was
wide awake because he was so interesting. I
thought he, I was much impressed with him. Dean, we
belong to the same church, Dean is really
knowledgeable about what's going on in higher
education. He and McDonald didn't, McDonald had
nothing but disdain for the College of Education,
and Dean stepped down, I think, because of Donald,
who was, I wouldn't rank him high as a provost. I
always wondered why he was selected. I'll tell you
a story about that. Vanderburg promised that if I
had Mobley on the list, he'd pick him. But Mobley,
Jimmy was sitting next to him. I shouldn't be
telling
this. Let's see, were there any other deans that we
left out that you wanted that deserve high praise?
I think John Fackler fought for his college. Which
college was that? Science. Science. And did a,
it was some one way he said that if we gave him a
budget of infinity he'd exceed it. But I thought he
was a pretty effective dean. All right, looking
back on those 10 years, do you remember any moments
of joy that may have been a brief moment where you
said, oh, boy, I'm glad I was there?
In that little piece that's in this thing, the
night we were counting the votes on the Senate was
an electrifying experience. It was over in a room
in, Claude Davis had headed up the program to see
how it would go. And it was over in architecture,
and it was an exciting evening.
There were lots of things like when we had Bart
Giamatti here and I put up the money to host a dinner
at Fish Richards for the English department. and
that was a fun experience because they were
really, the faculty really enjoyed it I think. I
thought that John McDermott did a fabulous job,
stayed often? Well, did a fabulous job of being the
first speaker of the Senate and then the perfect
combination of what's his name in agriculture
that we were talking about earlier became the
second speaker Murray Milford Murray Milford
with his crew cut and all. He smoothed things out
then with the regents as a speaker went to the Board
of Regents meeting. Because McDermott was, by
Aggie standards, quote, an outsider. But Murray,
an insider. He grew up in Texas, went to A&M and so
forth. Cadet, colonel, or whatever. Do you
remember any moments when there was a now amusing
snafu when something just didn't go the way it was
planned. Gee.
I can't remember one in which. Where somebody
forgot their speech or didn't show up or. got to the
wrong place. I guess I sort of blocked them from
memory if they were dead. Do you remember any
regents' meetings that were highly significant?
I remember one of the earliest ones. It was shortly
after Vandiver had been hired. Bill McKenzie came
up to Chuck and me and said, don't worry men, we'll
get rid of him within the year. I don't know, we may
edit that out too, but I remember that. For the most
part, I wasn't there when Jarvis Miller was
terminated, so for the most part it was kind of
dull.
And then after a while we didn't go, we weren't
allowed to go, just as well. Okay, about to wind it
up then.
Who would you like to thank?
If you, whether they're living or not, who do you
wish you could thank for what has happened in these
years here that you've known? Providence, I
guess. I don't know, I've been lucky in some, in a
lot of respects.
You know, outside of parents, I mean, they
certainly had a lot. Oh, I was meaning Aggie types.
Aggie types. I really appreciated Mac Prescott in
my early, early years as a dean of faculty. John
Pearson played a
role as I said we did get out of sorts after a while
but then we made up people like John McDermott was a
great supporter of mine for reasons I never quite
understood but
I don't know there's so many people that who were so
supportive and so friendly it's hard to Pick them
up. People like Gary Hart, of whom I'm very fond.
Murray Milford. Bruce Schaefer. I mean, there are
a lot of people that helped. All you had to do was ask
them.
I really did enjoy the relationships with faculty
and found them always to be so supportive and so
eager to. Okay, two more questions. Next, the last
one is let's make believe that I gave you a million
dollar check and said there's only one
restriction on the check. You must give it to Texas
A&M, but you decide what the money would go to help.
I used to fight for money that was with no strings
attached. And
so that's kind of a hard one. I guess I would put it in
faculty development leaves.
You're the first person that's thought of that
one. Well, I was involved with that. No, I
understand. I understand that. I really...
You know, major schools do have significant
programs, and we haven't got one yet. I don't know
if we ever will. But if we want to be the super school
that this recent pronouncement had to do with, the
Vision 2020 or whatever it is, 2000... that's one
of the areas we need to work on let me let me add a
question then you now are emperor again and you can
give advice to the leadership of the decision
makers about A&M what advice would you give them
today one
thing I would like to see them have and it's not an
original idea with me it's one that Tulane had I
would strongly urge that there be created a board
of visitors
drawn from the highest echelons to come in and
advise the board and the president. I proposed
that in this 1992 or 3 thing that Calhoun was
involved in. We were talking about the other day at
coffee. It never got anywhere, of course. But I
think getting some really top-rated people from
industry, from people who really understand,
you know, big-time people, that would be the one
thing I would want to see. Right. Last question.
Looking back, what effect did it have on your life
that you accepted this appointment at Texas A&M?
Well, obviously, it was a very positive effect.
In retrospect, I know I made the right decision.
I've really enjoyed the years I've been here. I've
been well taken care of. I think the family enjoyed
it. Let me close then by, on behalf of all of the
people who have maroon blood, to thank you for your
part in making this place better. Thank you.